I mean, you all know, the prayers of bodhichitta, in those without it, may it be generated.
In those who have it, may it never diminish it, but always continually increase it.
This is the aspiration prayer of the bodhichitta of compassion. I mean, you know that.
We all know that's what we do.
And this is the precious bodhichitta. It's the precious bodhichitta.
Why is it precious? I already said yesterday, the benefit and power of the bodhichitta,
there's nothing higher and bigger and better and deeper than the bodhichitta.
Every good thing is what we call known as in the nirvana. Every good thing is in the nirvana,
what we are talking, enlightenment, arata, Buddhahood, and bodhisattvas, and all that.
All is developed from this. All is developed from this. Nothing is came out of this.
Therefore, it's so precious, so special, so extraordinary, yet it's so ordinary.
No one is out of this darkness. We all have this nature. Everyone, no one is out of this.
It's ordinary, it's ordinary, it's real, it's simple. It's just the way things are.
That's the nature it is. This is the precious bodhichitta.
It's not just only heavy is enough, now we have to activate it after.
Activated this. We have to bring that. We have to bring that sizzling status, sizzle status.
Bring it out. That's it. That's what He said. Those we don't eat, may it be generated.
How we generated that? That's what I've been talking, we've been discussing.
Poor, boundless. Poor, boundless is the way to activating, glorifying, sizzling, bring it out.
Out, that is poor, boundless. And poor, boundless, I mention, and you know it's not just, I mention
it.
Love, compassion. Compassion, joy, or reduce, joy or reduces, and equanimities.
These are poor, I've been talking for boundless. But at the same time, we all have this.
It's not again out of range. We're not talking something that only Buddha has, or great bodhisattva
has.
We all have this. We all have this. But how we have now ourself is limited. Limited.
Our love is limited. Our compassion is limited. Our joy or reduce is limited.
Our equanimity and equality is limited. By who? How that happened? Because due to the duality,
due to the ego clinging, due to the self-important and self-centered mind, whatever we name,
because of that is limited. Where those came from is all came from our own mind.
Therefore, what is those named in the Buddha's teaching? Delusions. It is delusions.
It's delusions. We hold on to that. When we hold on to that, what is known as grasping, clinging.
Where is grasping? Where is clinging? Again, there is nothing existing. No substantial, solid,
entity grasping, clinging does not exist at all. Its self is delusions. Its self is diluted.
Deluded, we hold. Who is supported to hold that? Grasping itself is supported to grasping.
It's maintaining, upholding. It continues that. There's nothing else coming outside to uphold
and helping support to keep that. It's one's own creations. Therefore, we have to release.
We have to relax. We have to release that not, not or typed. Who did that first place? We did.
And now how we have to release that? Or release the not? Not. We have to do. Ourself have to do.
Each and individually have to do that. For that reason, what the greatest teacher Buddha said,
"I showed you the technique. It's now up to you how to do it." It's not something that
Buddha can do this and that things. And what Buddha can do, Buddha did a long time ago to us.
Buddha is full of compassion, full of love, and full of concern and thought to all living beings.
Buddha did or Buddha did long time ago. But one's own did. We have to clean by one's own side.
It's our responsibility. We're not going to ask him, "Well, do something there." Kind of believe
him
onto that. That is not right. Everything what we're doing in the samsara, samsara, even in the sams
ara,
we do ourself. We are our responsibilities. It's our ability. No one is really, even though we
have all security, ensuring all these different things, but at the reality level, I have to take
care of myself. Nobody really has the capability to take care and handle that. Even if they wanted
to.
It's the same way. Same way. We have to bring out these qualities. We have to maintain
for that is what it is. For example, poor boundaries. We have to make this prison time
is limited and with boundaries. We have to break that boundaries. We have to release that
every direction. And let that love and compassion, the joys and equanimity shine to every direction
as a building sign without any boundaries, without any distractions. When we do this,
as I said yesterday, then it becomes limitless. Limitless, boundless, boundless. And your love
and where your heart is opening is boundless, limitless. And vastness and where it's reaching
to all the sentient beings without any discrimination is limitless. All sentient beings are
limitless,
limitless, boundless. There's no numbers. So your opening is boundless. Where it's reaching out
is boundless or limitless. And then benefit in the teaching set. And benefit and the result is
limitless. Benefit, the power, what you're really doing, something that you never did or we never
did by ego, cleanliness. Today we are directing our ego. We are directing our self-importance.
We are directing self-centered mind, breaking that wall, that regimen, that convergence
and opening clearly to all living beings. That is about wondrous, how beautiful it is,
how speakerly it is. This is the way to go, to help you to all the sentient beings. That's what
we take the journey of today enlightenment of Buddhism. So this is the one of the teachings.
First is here, pastors' love. Then second is compassion. And third is reduce and forth is joy.
I mean I said no. But according to the teaching, according when it comes to the practice level,
many great masters in the practice of lineage mentioned first you should activate more
equanimities. Equanimity is very important. Equanimity will balance you. So our love and
compassion, joy and the reduce are not become emotions. And then if it's become emotion,
then again we're making grasping and clinging. Clinging is not good enough. It's not good enough
for us to help you to the beings. Therefore, this equality thought. So that means love and
compassion is balanced. Love is balanced on the compassion. Sorry, love is balanced in the
equanimity or love is best on the equanimity. Compassion is best on the equanimity and the
reduce and joy is best on the equanimity. And we do this that way. And we practice with that. Then
love becomes pure. Compassion becomes pure. And the reduce and joy becomes pure. And then it's
completely blended in perfectly. It's benefiting to all the beings. At the same time, we are
cleansing and purifying our obscurations, obstacles. With this beautiful balance in the
equanimity and kind of understanding, and then do the practice. Start with love and kindness,
as teaching said. Love. Love and taking over the sentient beings. So this is what I'm
told to kind of talk a little bit about that. And that's so here. How are we going to keep this?
Okora, again, this, this, this, this, this sentence. "In those without it, may it generate it." So
that is what is generating. Poor, boundless. Bring up that. That will make the generating the body
channels. And now those who have the body channels are generating that. And then third one here is,
"Those who have it, may it never demolish it." How does it demolish it? Again, due to our habit
patterns and grasping, that ego or self-important, self-centered mind is always around our, our
things.
And that is demolishing. Whenever that's happening, or for that reason, always increasing.
Always keep up the poor, boundless. Always keep up the poor, boundless. How to also to grow up that
?
How to maintain that? Then we did, such as actualizing both each other. As I said yesterday,
whenever you know, actualizing both each other with these six paramata practices.
You do kind of kept the six paramata practices with it. With this poor, boundless thought, it will
maintain, keep the stabilizer both each other. At the same time, it is bring growth in the
development,
development. And how it will bring development? And that is then, by always continuing increasing.
Always, then it will increase. The increase, always increasing and developing and advancing,
advancing, part 10 booming, all those Buddha teaching makers that will grow that. And again,
to summarize that, to bring that, summarize again one more how this is what in the teaching system.
See, what Buddha put so simple and beautiful, something that we can really, we can kind of keep
that in the mind, what in here it is. Again in Dharmapala Freya we have this, this is the essence
teaching of the Buddha. Buddha said, do not engage in any negative activities. Do not engage in any
negative activities. And the practicing will choose it perfectly. Completely should you get your
own
mind. This is teaching of the Buddha or this is teaching of Buddha. So that is the one. Again,
to simplify this. Again, how to maintain this bodhicitta. Again, how to do this?
And that is, do not engage in any negative activities. Negative activity is resolved.
Resolved. Resolved or is proved, for example, proved. What is cause of negative activities?
We discussed the other day or said quite a few times. Cause of negative is nothing but
negative emotions. Negative emotions. What are those? Ignorance, attachment, and anger.
Those activities. And then the others, in error and so forth. That these are the cause of negative
activities. And where they come from again? It's the same thing. It's all the time from mind.
Mind. And then these all negatives, even called negatives, they are not substantial solid existing.
They are again just an energy, evaporation of the mind. In other words, no. There is no substantial
solid existing. Every you really analyze them is getting through an analytic or they exam that.
Exam that intellectually, where is that? It's all creation of the mind. Said, why is it all
negative?
I make it so many times and you know, because it is unwholesome. It is hurting you, my son,
and hurting others. Others. And that's why it's called negatives. It is creating
unpleasant environment to me or to myself and to the others. It don't bring peace, happiness,
joy. It won't bring. Therefore, it's known as negatives. So for that reason, being as practitioners
,
we're trying to really always thoughtful with our mind and our actions.
That is what the Buddha said here. That is what the Buddha is going to say. The negative
is going to hurt me, hurt my friend, my family, and everyone. And so therefore,
I try to be thoughtful with this, that is. And then action is louder than thinking.
It's reflecting to outside. That definitely will hurt every color. So that is what really the
Buddha
saying. Should not do any negative activities. And we can definitely should do not any negative
activities. Even we cannot do, but we should try to remember teaching and try to remember
the benefit or the consequence of that. And if we do that, what is known as in Buddhism
called practitioners. Buddha's teaching never mentioned any places violence is good. Any name,
what even names, there is no any violence. And that is what it should not do. If anything is
violent, it best on the emotions. It best on the negative emotions. What are those negative
emotions? Again, ignoring is fundamental, attachment, angle, and arrogance, and jealous.
Jealous and combination of that. Performing this. So you should not do any negative activities.
And then do the virtues practice perfectly or practice virtues perfectly. What is virtues?
The virtues is, is then again, it has cause, it has content. Virtues itself is like result,
result of fruit. The cause of virtues is good heart, simple Buddha. Good heart, best upon the
true love, true compassion, true wisdom. For that reason, Grand Master Navarajana said in his
teaching, once said, when your detachment and no anger and no ignorance is the virtues. That
is the virtues. Whatever comes from that, it is known as the head virtues. So, perform the virtues
actively. And where these virtues and all these virtues clip on? Again, it's from mind. It's not
really any outside that is. It's all about our mind. Mind, and you reveal that virtues. Let that
shine, let that come out. And in order to do this, in order to do this, the most important is then
he has it. Completely subjugating your own mind. Subjugating your own mind. What that subjugating
means? Subjugating the ego clinging, subjugating the self-important, subjugating the substantial
mind. And we focus with that subjugating the attachment and anger and the yellows and arrogance.
Subjugating. When you're trying to, how are we to subjugate that? Also, if we don't follow after
that, even if it arises in our mind, but if we don't follow, activate that. That is how we're
subduing, subduing, we're reducing the stance. That means when you don't follow after that,
that means you got intelligence. What's done is coming through. What's done is coming.
And then you start. You didn't follow after that. What happened at that point?
Thought, negative thoughts. Then it's liberated. According to doctor teaching,
liberated. According to medical teaching, subjugate it. You subjugate power of the wrath
of your compassion, power of the wrath of yourlessness. You really subjugate it. Subjugate it.
That is what he says. And through that, then he increases this, both each other. Always, always,
as much as we can. With the great joy, the great apprehension, there's nothing better and
beautiful, beautiful gift to my own self in this life, in the future life, more than both each
other.
So really recognize, call it, and important how precious it is, and always glorifying and doing,
following that in that light. And that is known as, then, in the Buddha's teaching,
the other Buddha's teaching, Bodhisattvas, male and female. And even bodhisattva, when you call
those practitioners, noble son and noble daughters, they're novelists, truly, who follow that,
who practice that. So that is what is known as the purple of compassion, the pearl of the body,
just
that. So that is really, I just talked about that, so with this text, we have bodhima and we find
this
every day, so every time, every time. So I thought, even though I mean, you know this is not
something
not annoying about that, but you know, so I thought to talk that really. And then, now,